# liahona
  Ever since I was a young teenager, I've been fascinated with thoughtful planning. I've had an inner drive to be intentional in my actions; wanting to make the best use of my time and achieve what that mattered most to me. In my efforts to achieve this outcome, I experimented with many different time management techniques and tried many different systems over the last 4 decades. 
  The system I gravitated to was the Franklin Planner method. In particular, the way this method connected personal values (the "why" of what we do) with the goals and daily actions resonated the most with me. The Franklin Planner was popular in the late 1980's and throughout the 1990's. It served me well through my teenage and "pre-family" years. As my wife and I started to have children there was an element of unpredictability that didn't quite fit the method I was using. Also, as I moved from an individual contributor to a manager in my professional life, there was the dynamic of follow-up with people and capturing important conversations that were more cumbersome using the Franklin method. This forced me to explore enhancements and adaptations to the Franklin method.
  At about the same time, digital planners and smart phones were becoming more popular and offered planning options that could store more data and were more mobile. Also, the amount of information being generated was growing exponentially and frequency of those same communications was increasing. E-mails, the Internet, and texting all created more data points generated with different media that was stored in different places. This made it harder to keep all information in a single place; one of the key foundations of the Franklin Planner ideology.
  As I tried to adpat to a constantly evolving world I settled on a few principles that, in my mind, were key to successful planning:
    1. Capturing committments made to others and yourself need to be captured in a task list and assigned a date
    2. While daily planning, it is important to estimate the amount of time it takes to complete a task otherwise you risk planning too many things to do in 1 day
    3. Follow-up is an important principle and there is a need to capture what you've asked people to do, what the expected outcome is, and when you expect it by
    4. There will be tasks that you know you need to do but you are unable to assign a date at first. These tasks need to be captured and reviewed for scheduling
    5. With many demands on different roles (father, husband, provider, church leader, personal, etc) it is important to be thoughtful of, and intentional in, how much time is spent within those roles. This ensures balance and focus at the same time.
    6. Keeping planning and tracking activities in a central and single location is critical
  With these principles in mind, I evolved some of the basic Franklin Planner forms to capture the additional information I needed. It worked better, but electronic tools kept advancing to the point that it became impossible to ignore the additional productivity they could offer. Things like note-taking and tracking recurring tasks became easier to do with computers.
  I tried many different times to migrate to existing planning software packages. However, I never found one that did everything I wanted it to. I'm sure some sort of hybrid solution would have worked but I knew how I wanted to plan and I wanted something that met my needs. So, I decided to embark on a journey to design my own planning software package. After I started, I was really enjoying the journey which further fueled my desire to continue down the path I had embarked on. After defining what I wanted the application to do, creating the wireframes for the GUI interface, creating the data models that would persist the data, I'm now ready to start the JavaFX coding and creating usable versions of the software. 
